ODES. BOOK 11. 283

his daughter in marriage. His brother-S, Licinius and Teren-
tius, lost their estates for having joined the party of Pompey.
But Proculeius shared his fortune with them3 and afterwards
made their peace with Augustus—hence animi paterni in sra-
tres. Ode VII. 'of this Book, is addressed to Licinius. ”

10. Remotis Gadibus.- ‘ to distant Cadiz.’

11. Uterque Poenus .· i. e. Carthage in Africa, and Carthage
in Spain, taken by Scipio in the second Punic war.

17. Phraates: for an account of Phraates, king of the Par-
thiam, see Book I. Ode XXI. 3. note. He is said to have put to
death his father, his brother, and his eldest son. ι

18. Dissidens plebi.- ‘dissenting from the crowd! i. e. phi-
losophy judges differently respecting happiness, from what the

multitude does.
19. Populumque . . . vocibus -· ⁶ and teaches the vulgar not to

use false namesz' i. e. to give up their false ideas of human

happiness.
23. Oculo irretorto: ‘with eye undazzled.’

ODE ΙΙΙ.

Dellius was a man of fickle and inconstant character, who is
said to have changed sides four times during the civil wars-
When this ode was written he seems to have been in a state of
dejection, on account of the condition of his affairs. The poet
exhorts him to preserve equanimity of temper under all circum-
stances 3 since the shortness of life renders it of comparatively
little importance whether a man be rich or poor. But a reason-
able1 and innocent enjoyment of one's possessions is the truest
wis om. ff

7. Bedris .· for beaveris : i. e. or whether you shall have re-
galed yourself.

8. Interiore ποτά Falerni: ‘ with the more choice Falernian.’
Interiore: ‘put away more carefully to be brought out only on
rare occasions.

15. Sororum . . . trium .- the names of the Fates were Clotho,
Lachesis, and Atropos.

17. Cedes coemptis saltibus: i. e. you will bid adieu to the
delightful groves you have purchased at great expense.

19. Exstruetis in altum .· ‘ heaped high)

23. Sub· divo moreris : i. e. whether you may live in this

π world. Sub divo usually means in the open air: here it means

in this world. moreris, from moror, morari.

26. Urna : the ancients pretended that the names of all per-
sons living were cast into an urn, which was continually re-
volving‚ and that as each one's lot or name came out, that one
died. The ain urna is long by caesura. Some have pointed
this verse differently, and make urna in the ablative.

28. Cymbae .- i. e. in the boat of Charon.

